Tutorials on fluid-fluid coupling with the preCICE OpenFOAM adapter (#326)
precice/tutorials: partitioned-backwards-facing-step/README.md

The key point of this tutorial is the demonstration of custom inlet-outlet OpenFOAM boundary conditions for velocity and pressure. These can dynamically switch their behavior according to the underlying flow direction.
The boundary conditions `coupledVelocity` and `coupledPressure` come with the preCICE OpenFOAM adapter and can be set in the corresponding start time dictionaries for velocity and pressure.

## Available solvers

* OpenFOAM (pimpleFoam) for both participants. For more information, have a look at the [OpenFOAM adapter documentation](https://www.precice.org/adapter-openfoam-overview.html).

## Running the Simulation

Open two separate terminals and start the desired fluid1 and fluid2 participants by calling the respective run script. For example:

```bash
cd fluid1
./run.sh
```

and

```bash
cd fluid2
./run.sh

> ```

Author: Done in [cbee842](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/pull/326/commits/cbee84246b97f8f9715afc8c45c17d3ed4d2f171)

## Post-processing

The OpenFOAM solvers generate a `.foam` file each. You can open this file in ParaView.
An example of the visualized expected results at $t=3.0s$ looks as follows:

![result](images/tutorials-partitioned-backwards-facing-step-results.png)

We observe that the velocity and pressure values are smooth across the interface. Going through different time steps, we can also see how our inlet-outlet boundary conditions accurately changed behavior when the recirculation travelled inside the coupling interface.

> However, if we look closely we can observe that the values around the interface don't match the monolithic solution perfectly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if we look closely, we can observe that the values around the interface do not perfectly match the monolithic solution for this mesh resolution:
```

> ![result](images/tutorials-partitioned-backwards-facing-step-sampled.png)

Reviewer: We probably need to cite your thesis here, as we don't provide a monolithic case. Which brings the question of citing the data of your thesis (maybe put them on Zenodo).

Author: We could also just add the monolithic case folder here.
Do you mean generally putting the data of all cases from my thesis on Zenodo?

Author: Also, in this particular case, this graph is actually not in my thesis. Should I cite it anyway?

Reviewer: > We could also just add the monolithic case folder here.

We don't currently have any monolithic cases in the tutorials, so that would be inconsistent.

> Do you mean generally putting the data of all cases from my thesis on Zenodo?

Yes, that would make your thesis more reproducible in the long term. Alternatively (or additionally), we could do that for the conference paper. If you have a specific repository/branch with all data, that would also work here.

Author: I think I will remove the comparison to the monolithic solution from here and only show the coupled interface graph.

I will also upload my thesis data to Zenodo, but I need a full day cleaning up the folders for this.

Reviewer: Sounds good.
Then, archiving the data is independent from this PR.

> Above graph shows the cell values of the velocity sampled along the coupling interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above graph shows the cell values of the velocity sampled along the coupling interface.
```

> It is possible to reduce the observed error by using a finer mesh around the interface. But keep in mind, that a finer mesh might require finer time steps as well!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to reduce the observed error by using a finer mesh around the interface. But keep in mind, that a finer mesh might require finer time steps as well.
```

---
title: Partitioned flow over a backwards facing step
permalink: tutorials-partitioned-backwards-facing-step.html
keywords: tutorial, FF, fluid-fluid coupling, OpenFOAM, pimpleFoam, inlet-outlet
summary: This tutorial describes how to run a partitioned fluid simulation using the preCICE OpenFOAM adapter with its custom boundary conditions.
---

{% note %}
Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/partitioned-backwards-facing-step). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://www.precice.org/tutorials.html).
{% endnote %}

> Fluid-fluid coupling is still experimental. The following setup is needed to run this tutorial:
> 
> - preCICE v2 ([release version](https://github.com/precice/precice/releases))
> - OpenFOAM adapter ([develop version](https://github.com/precice/openfoam-adapter/tree/develop))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% note %}
This tutorial relies on yet unreleased features of the OpenFOAM adapter. You need [preCICE v2](https://github.com/precice/precice/releases)) and [the ff-develop branch of the OpenFOAM adapter](https://github.com/precice/openfoam-adapter/tree/ff-develop) to run this tutorial.
{% endnote %}
```
